a famous sequence in mathematics has
each new number equal to the sum of the
previous two numbers you may know this
as the Fibonacci sequence
it was discovered more than a thousand
years before Fibonacci by the
mathematician Pingala in the analysis of
language consider the words rice and ohm
they take longer to say than the words
Thug and caught in the sun' script
analysis of poetry rice and ohm can be
thought of as long syllables that take
two units of metrical beat dog and cot
would be considered short syllables that
take one unit of metrical beat Pingala
wondered how many ways are there to
compose and units of metrical beats
using long and short syllables this is a
mathematical problem of combinatorics if
we have one total unit we can only
compose that by using one short beat so
there's only one way that we can compose
one unit if we had two units we could
compose it as two short beats but we can
also compose it as one long syllable
there are two total ways we can compose
two units of metrical beat what about
three ways now we can have three short
syllables we can start out with the
short syllable followed by a long
syllable or we could start off with the
long syllable and end with the short
syllable so there are three total ways
to compose three units of metrical beat
what about four units of metrical beat
what we could do is we can copy the
number of ways that we compose two units
a metrical beat and then we could put a
long syllable at the end we can also
copy the number of ways that we make
three units of metrical beat and we can
add a short syllable at the
of each of these in total there are five
ways we can make four units of metrical
beat and this is because five is equal
to two plus three and now we can see a
pattern if we want to compose n units of
metrical beat we could end the line with
the long syllable which would leave n
minus 2 unit symmetrical beat and there
are n minus 2 however many number of
ways to make that number of beats we can
also end the line with a short syllable
which would leave n minus 1 metrical
beats to be filled so the number of ways
to make n unit symmetrical beat follows
a recurrence relation that it's equal to
the number of ways to make n minus 2
plus the number of ways to make n minus
1 and it's really amazing that Pingala
discovered this over a thousand years
before Fibonacci so we might more
accurately call this the Pingala
sequence I hope you like this video
please subscribe to my channel for free
updates when I post new videos on math
and game theory you can catch me on my
blog mind your decisions but you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can also catch me at presto Walker
on social media and please check out my
books on math and game theory I provided
some links in the video description
thanks for watching